Add basic (single) pipeline bucket stats. (#9599)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/pipeline/max-bucket.md

---
layout: default
title: Maximum bucket
parent: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 100
---

# Maximum bucket aggregations

The `max_bucket` aggregation is a sibling aggregation that calculates the maximum of a metric in each bucket of a previous aggregation.

> The specified metric must be numeric and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specified metric must be numeric, and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.
```

## Parameters

The `max_bucket` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Buckets path]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#buckets-path). |

> | `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip` and `insert_zeros`. Default is `skip`. For more information, see [Data gaps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#data-gaps)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `gap_policy`          | Optional          | String          | The policy to apply to missing data. Valid values are `skip` and `insert_zeros`. Default is `skip`. For more information, see [Data gaps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#data-gaps).|
```

| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |

## Example

The following example creates a date histogram with a one-month interval from the OpenSearch Dashboards e-commerce sample data. The `sum` subaggregation calculates the sum of bytes for each month. Finally, the `max_bucket` aggregation finds the maximum---the largest of these buckets:

```json
POST opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "visits_per_month": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "@timestamp",
        "interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "sum_of_bytes": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "bytes"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "max_monthly_bytes": {
      "max_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "visits_per_month>sum_of_bytes"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> The `max_bucket` aggregation returns the maximum value from a specified metric across multiple buckets. In this example, it calculates the maximum number of bytes per month from the `sum_of_bytes` metric inside `visits_per_month`. The `value` field shows the maximum value found across all buckets. The `keys` array contains the bucket keys where this maximum value was observed. It's an array because more than one bucket can have the same maximum value. In such cases, all matching bucket keys are included. This ensures the result is accurate even if multiple time periods (or terms) tied for the maximum:

Reviewer: 4th sentence: Something like "The `keys` array contains the keys of the buckets in which this maximum value was observed"? Last sentence: "This ensures that the result is accurate even if multiple time periods (or terms) have the same maximum value"?

> The `max_bucket` aggregation returns the maximum value from a specified metric across multiple buckets. In this example, it calculates the maximum number of bytes per month from the `sum_of_bytes` metric inside `visits_per_month`. The `value` field shows the maximum value found across all buckets. The `keys` array contains the bucket keys where this maximum value was observed. It's an array because more than one bucket can have the same maximum value. In such cases, all matching bucket keys are included. This ensures the result is accurate even if multiple time periods (or terms) tied for the maximum:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `max_bucket` aggregation returns the maximum value from a specified metric across multiple buckets. In this example, it calculates the maximum number of bytes per month from the `sum_of_bytes` metric inside `visits_per_month`. The `value` field shows the maximum value found across all buckets. The `keys` array contains the keys of the buckets in which this maximum value was observed. It's an array because more than one bucket can have the same maximum value. In such cases, all matching bucket keys are included. This ensures that the result is accurate even if multiple time periods (or terms) have the same maximum value:
```

---
layout: default
title: Maximum bucket
parent: Pipeline aggregations
nav_order: 100
redirect_from:
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline-agg#avg_bucket-sum_bucket-min_bucket-max_bucket/
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/pipeline/max-bucket/
---

# Maximum bucket aggregations

The `max_bucket` aggregation is a sibling aggregation that calculates the maximum of a metric in each bucket of a previous aggregation.

The specified metric must be numeric and the sibling aggregation must be a multi-bucket aggregation.

## Parameters

The `max_bucket` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |

> | `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#pipeline-aggregation-syntax). |

Author: ```suggestion
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Pipeline aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#buckets-path-property). |
```

| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |

## Example

The following example creates a date histogram with a one-month interval from the OpenSearch Dashboards e-commerce sample data. The `sum` sub-aggregation calculates the sum of all bytes for each month. Finally, the `max_bucket` aggregation finds the maximum---the largest of these buckets:

```json
POST opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "visits_per_month": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "@timestamp",
        "interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "sum_of_bytes": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "bytes"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "max_monthly_bytes": {
      "max_bucket": {
        "buckets_path": "visits_per_month>sum_of_bytes"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> The aggregation returns the maximum number of bytes from the monthly buckets:

Reviewer 3: While it is reasonably intuitive, should explicitly specify what keys indicate. For example - it is array because more than one key might have same value as max

Reviewer 2: Added an extended description in both max and min bucket pages.
